it's no surprise that exhaust from
vehicles can negatively affect people's
health and contributes to climate change
urban smog and acid rain however what
few people realize is that the oldest 10
to 15 percent of vehicles on the road
generate up to 50 percent of vehicle
emissions the New Brunswick Lung
Association's vehicle scrappage program
is a voluntary program that reduces
polluting vehicle emissions by
encouraging owners of 1995 or older
vehicles to use less polluting means of
transportation so to qualify for the
program a participant has to turn in a
1995 or older vehicle and that vehicle
has to be in running conditions that it
can be driven to the scrapyard now if
they turn in their vehicle to the
program they qualify for one of three it
sentence first is a discount on an uber
car second instead of as a free transit
pass for one year and the third
incentive is a free membership to CA a
Maine Automobile Association so ever
wonder what happens to your vehicle once
it goes through the program so our
participant turns their car into the
program the scrapyard then processes
that vehicle according to environmental
guidelines
so what's it was once the oath of the
car is cleaned is then crushed and sent
off to a processing plant
recycled metal so there are two main
processes involved in straight into
vehicle the first is the actual
shredding of the car and the second is
separation of all the materials car
begins the shredding process by being
lifted onto the shredder here it's
chopped into smaller pieces usually no
bigger than a fist so while a whole car
goes in one end it's just a stream of
material that comes out of the other end
the shredded material consists of metals
plastics phone glass basically
everything that makes up a car in order
to recover the recyclable material it
enters the separation process certain
metals like iron and steel are removed
as a shredded material passes under a
powerful magnet these metals stick to
the magnet while all the other materials
continue on to the other separation
processes then the non-magnetic metals
like copper and aluminum are separated
what is left the plastics rubber and
glass are called fluff this is then
stopped filed on site the recyclable
materials such as iron steel aluminum
and other metals represent about 75
percent of the weight of the vehicle now
that they are separated they can be sold
as scrap metal and turned into new
products maybe even a new car so I
actually turned in my own family vehicle
to the program I was a 1995 Honda Accord
that my wife and I owned for nine or ten
years it actually it was difficult to
turn it in because there was a lot of
family memories in the car it was our
first car when we were married when we
brought our children home from the
hospital in it so when I went to to see
it shredded I didn't really know a tooth
spec that I thought I was hoping that I
could hold back the tears and actually I
was able to and I knew that what we were
doing it was what's the right choice
if you would like more information on
the vehicle scrappage program or are
interested in turning in your vehicle
please visit www.ccltss.org or